All right.
This video is going to be a lot easier because the only focus is going to be the following two methods
If the authentication manager ends up sending back the authentication object, which in turn gets returned,
and that's going to invoke the successful authentication method.
And over here we're going to send back a JWT token that the user can then present to us as evidence
that they've authenticated.
And the only thing that we're going to be sending back in the JWT payload is the subject which is going
to equal the username.
The username will be stored as a value for the subject field and actually also inside the payload,
we're going to add an expiry date of 2 hours from the current time and then we're going to use the following
algorithm to produce a digital signature that combines the header, the payload and a very strong 512
bit secret.
The resulting digital signature will be very, very hard to decode, making it very, very hard for
someone to tamper with the JWT without us knowing about it.
And so what successful authentication is going to do is add the JWT token to the response and send it
back to the user and then that's it.
We've authenticated them.
The user can then present this JWT as evidence that they have been authenticated and use it to make
requests.
All right, that's enough talk.
Let's get started.
What I want you to do first is go to your pom xml file and add the following dependency.
I'll give you some time to pause the video and do that.
Please make sure to use the same version just so that things are consistent and we'll go to the authentication
filter and we will create a JWT token string token is equal to JWT and we're going to create a JWT token
that has a subject which identifies the authenticated user.
In this case we're going to put in their name for the subject expires that.
So this expects a date.
So I'm going to say new date.
That starts from the current time system.
Current time in milliseconds plus 2 hours.
So we can grab the expiry time from our.
Security Constance file and looking back, this is in seconds where it actually should be in milliseconds.
We could say times 1000 here, but you know what might just be worth updating our token expiration.
All right.
So this token will be set to expire 2 hours after we've given them the JWT.
This is going to be in our payload and we're going to sign our JWT token using the MAC 512 algorithm,
which can take in a string secret.
The secret we're going to give them is security constants dot secret key.
Now.
How did I create a 512 bit secret?
I actually found a very handy encryption key generator, and if you just click on 512 bits, it will
generate a 512 bit secret, which is what's expected by the following algorithm.
All right.
And so as successful authentication, we know what's going to send back a status of 200 unless we claim
otherwise.
Let's leave the status of 200.
All we're going to do is add a header.
The header is going to say authorisation, which I believe is a security constant.
So we'll say.
Security Constants dot authorization.
The next thing we're going to add in our header is bearer.
And this authorization header is going to have a value of security constants bearer.
Plus the JWT token.
So you'll remember from Basic Auth that usually the header that's used for authentication is authorization
followed by basic and then followed by your username and password.
Well, with token based authentication, it is going to be bearer followed by your JWT token.
All right.
I think we're ready to test this out.
Let's run the application in debug mode.
Will be fixing this up in just a moment.
All right.
First I'll register.
And this time no funny business.
Let us log in correctly.
All right, beautiful.
We get a successful authentication and to the response we are passing in an authorization header that
equals our bearer JWT token.
And this is our response to 100.
We've successfully authenticated the user.
I hope you realize how much of a big deal this is.
And now we'll go to headers and there is our JWT token.
Just for fun, I'm just going to go on a base 64 decoder and I'll decode the header of the JWT token.
Here you can see it's let me zoom in.
I don't want you seeing all these ads.
Here you can see that the header is type JWT with an algorithm of H.
S 512, which is exactly what we set up over here.
We're using an algorithm of 512, we're returning a JWT token.
So as we described before, the header of a JWT token is just metadata that describes what it is.
What follows the second dot is your payload, which I hope you can guess is going to be your subject.
That equals the username, the thing that actually identifies the user being authenticated and an expiry
date.
Let's decode that.
And I think I may have gone a bit too far.
This is our digital signature, which is impossible to decode.
So here we see our payload is subject my username with an expiry date.
And now as the client, I can use this JWT token as evidence that I have been authenticated and I can
include it in all of my subsequent requests such that the API is going to take active measures inside
of the JWT authorization filter to validate our token.
Make sure it hasn't been tampered with.
Make sure it is a token that they provided us.
And if they validate our token, then they will authorize us to make whatever request we want to make.
We'll be setting that up in the next video.
For now, we're not going to do anything with the JWT token.
The next thing I want to fix is our unsuccessful authentication method.
In the event that we do not authenticate properly and a bad credentials exception is thrown.
What we're going to do is say a response, the set status, what we should not be sending back at 200,
that's for sure.
We're going to be sending back a HTTP servlet response.
SC Which would be.
Um, forbidden es 403 I don't see 401 anywhere up there.
It is c unauthorized.
And now let me add some content to our response.
I'm just going to copy what we have over here.
What we're going to write into the response is actually going to be the message that is passed into
the authentication exception, which is going to be wrong password.
But instead of wrong, I'm going to say incorrect password.
Or you provided an incorrect password.
That sounds a lot better to me.
Um.
Yeah.
We can just say failed.
Dot get message.
We'll get the message from the authentication exception that was thrown and I can't think of anything
else that we have to do.
So let us register.
As Ray and Slim.
We'll leave the username as is, but we will mess up the password.
For a one unauthorized.
This is looking beautiful.
And it says you provided an incorrect password.
Well, what if I provide an incorrect email?
What do I.
Or username, I should say?
I forget the breakpoints.
Username doesn't exist.
Wow.
This is looking really, really cool.
And we get a404 not found it.
Couldn't find the username that you were looking for.
Our application is looking really, really powerful.
So the next thing we have to do is implement the authorization filter.
So now if a user were to log in, they would receive a JWT token.
And now when they want to make requests to any of these methods, they're going to need to pass in the
JWT token as evidence that they have been authenticated.
And then we're going to validate their token over here to make sure it hasn't been tampered with.
All right.
That's going to be the last thing that we implement for this authentication mechanism in our security
filter chain.
So I cannot wait to see you there.